hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery again if
the title of today's episode looks
familiar that's because it is five years
ago when this free public service was
launched the inaugural topic wasn't that
Jean shirt Wong it's it's weighed heavy
on my mind all these years that I
shoehorned that entire massive topic and
all its historical mythology into a mere
18 minute episode I guess in the grand
scheme of things when considering
Chinese history teacher Wong he's a
pretty important guy
so if sir YK Paul got 75 minutes surely
the Chi and Emperor should get more than
18 minutes so in this episode Ching Chef
Wong is getting a long-overdue total
makeover this is such an interesting
topic on so many levels change her Hong
and the mausoleum and the terracotta
warriors sort of suck all the oxygen out
of the room as far as the memorable
achievements of the Chien the supernovae
of the first emperor and his mausoleum
takes one's eyes off the series of
events that led up to 221 BCE and long
lasting legacy these times produced this
story's been told before but let's kick
back and groove on it one more time our
story today examines those five
centuries leading up to 221 BCE the year
Qin Shihuang kicked off his 10-year run
as the first ever emperor of China a lot
has been made of the fact that it was
great as he was he was only Emperor for
ten years and his dynasty didn't last
long the first emperor of China not a
king an emperor
no one ever used that title before
emperor of what China didn't exist until
the Qin Emperor
no one was identifying with being at
John Warren if he came from Chou that
was your whole world the people of job
didn't necessarily speak Chinese exactly
the same as the people in Shi and they
certainly didn't speak of like they
didn't chew your BA or shoo so although
we refer to the mythical Shah the Shang
and the seven and a half centuries of
the Jo as ancient China
no that would
news to those people who live back then
the concept of a single Chinese state
had been thought up yet in Chinese
characters preached in dynasty the large
seal script style of writing and
heritage from the Jo differentiated from
state-to-state the way they wrote horse
and Yin wasn't exactly the same as in
Chu so no one yet had this idea of a
single unified Chinese state maybe you
could compare it to the American
colonies in the late 1600s early 1700s
the idea that these different colonies
in Maryland New York South Carolina and
Georgia would all unite to form one
country wasn't in the minds of anyone
just yet that's maybe the most important
thing we can credit the first Qin
Emperor for he was the first to conquer
all the principal states and join
everyone together all the sidebars about
burning books burying scholars
conscripted millions of peasants for all
these building projects as just parlor
talk compared to the main achievement he
united all the separate states of China
into one country and as an encore
instituted reforms in government and
throughout the land that lasted almost
to the very end of Imperial Chinese
history the Shah dynasty and Qing Chuang
have something in common and that both
their stories pretty much ride on
whatever samaa Chen left behind for us
in the records of the grand historian
the Shoji and assured G as we can buy a
today on Amazon wasn't discovered until
the Song Dynasty so given that double
disconnect it's hard to separate the
myths from the facts but you have to
hand it to these scholars in China
modern day and the ones who came before
they did manage to find out quite a lot
about the qin shi in society and about
xin sure Wong everyone knows the story
about the farmers and lien tongs shine
Shi province who were digging a well and
found the terracotta warriors instead
that is only the tip of the iceberg as
far as what else has been uncovered
since and what still lies beneath the
ground in any direction within a hundred
miles of lean
and every year something is dug up that
fits another piece to the ongoing story
of the chiyan and the first emperor of a
unified China since basically all we
know about Qin Shi Huang is what so much
Shen tells us we have no choice but to
go with that he got the Shang Dynasty
right so maybe when he says Qin Shihuang
had the voice of a jackal he had it on
good authority after all when you look
at it this way so much Yente died around
85 BCE or 135 years after Qin Shihuang
passed from today's perspective in 2015
that'd be 1880 Rutherford Behe's I guess
you could say from an historical
perspective at least that's still
somewhat fresh so maybe all that dumping
somach Yin does on the Qin Emperor
wasn't all just Han Confucian scholars
trying to put the chin down to build
themselves up I found it interesting
that every source I read said he was
born in the year 259 with no month or
date of birth the Wikipedia's cheatsheet
calls his birth February 7th 260 BCE if
that was so that's quite a coincidence
that the first Emperor shares the same
February 7th birthday with a Last
Emperor Puyi 21 and a half centuries
apart to the day believe it or not I
couldn't substantiate that anywhere else
February 7th also the fateful day when
Pan Am 101 from lhr carrying the Fab
Four landed at JFK in 1964 the story of
the Qin begins in 897 BCE still Elva
long a days in Western Civ Romulus and
Remus are still 126 years in the future
the people of Sheen had the first big
break when summoned there was granted a
right to breed horses for the Joe Kings
this someone had been granted the
surname Ying and from that day forward
the rulers of this place would all be
surnamed Ying the Qin Emperor's name was
yang Jung his father was Ying dongs
young try as they might all throughout
the centuries that
couldn't wipe off that taint that led
them to be disparaged by the people from
the east who called them wild
uncivilized and not like them
the Hacha people who would one day call
themselves the true Chinese for now an
aristocracy who all considered
themselves part of a single superior
culture carry the banner for this
embryonic Chinese state the chain were
not among them at least not in the eyes
of these highborn Yellow River Valley
aristocrats the Qin state that later on
will develop in the way River Valley
near Xian and its earliest days was
located way out west in gansu second
city in present-day gentry these Qin
ancestors were Western wrong people
before the show new became the scourge
of the North China Plain there were the
wrong they had been around since Shung
days but far out to the west distance
kept them apart from the central china
plain by the time of the Joe they were a
constant source of stress the wrong and
there were several tribes of them were
just one of the silly the four
barbarians of the day along with the
donkey Beatty and the non Mon these
so-called ye people barbarians
surrounded the embryonic Chinese state
that will hatch in 221 BCE Summa Chen
says that Sheen's ancestors came from
these wrong people if so it's ironic
that in 314 the Qin military after a
couple knockdowns throughout the
centuries are gonna be the ones who
finished the wrong off probably these
xin
ancestors weren't wrong and only just
intermarried with them either way all
the noses from out east looked down on
the good people of Qin due to their
dubious ancestry wrong or no wrong these
Qin people acted as the proxies for the
Joe kings and the fight against these
nomads from the West the next in a
series of big breaks for the Qin came
when their leader Duke young was
formally granted a thief
of his own this happened when the Joe
King yolk was murdered by the invading
wrong and the ruling G family of the Joe
were chased out of the capital
the Royals led East where a new capital
was set up in law young though back then
it was called Chong Joe and it was this
sixth Qin ruler Dukes young Jin shankin
who escorted the new Joe King ping to
this new eastern capital in here and 771
BCE began the eastern Joe dynasty this
was all discussed back in CHP episodes
16 and 17 covering the Joe their third
big break came in the form of Dukes
young son Duke one who had the good
fortune to reign for 50 years he was the
one who got the job done as far as at
least neutralizing the wrong in 750 BCE
after returning land seized by the wrong
back to the Joe King Duke went of chin
reap some nice rewards from the grateful
G family in law young that Xin rulers
had officially arrived in return for
being there at the right time that Sheen
were granted special status by the Joe
and we're now officially on a roll if
they could just finish off the wrong for
sure their fortunes would rise promises
were made to them of land and honors by
the late 7th century BCE the Qin had
already begun their slow march eastward
from Gansu to the way River Valley where
Xian was located the history of the
warring States is long drawn-out and
complicated and made many times more
complicated if you're not a Chinese
speaker keeping all these names of Lords
Dukes Kings place-names battles treaties
alliances states and territories
straight as it's a lot to ask them
anyone I've listened to lectures watched
videos and listened to other podcasts
and that's a lot of detail to take in
for the entirety of the spring and
autumn and warring States period that
made up the eastern Joe there were so
many contender
all either knocking each other off or
aligned with each other for survival or
to knock someone else off after a
shakeout period that began in the
Eastern Joe there evolved a small number
of contenders in core China
the Yellow River plain this covered most
of modern-day shine she and Shaanxi a
sliver of who Bay most of Hunan in her
Bay all of Shandong and half of Anglais
at the time of you the Great the washa
Chinese heartland was no bigger than a
modern-day province next under the Shang
China as we know it was maybe four times
the size of Texas and during the Joe
China wasn't that much bigger than it
wasn't the Xiong the fortunes of the Qin
Kingdom received a nice bump under Duke
move chin will gone he ruled 659 to 621
a period when Kings were ruling and Rome
Romulus had been dead for less than a
century Gaius Marius was still five
hundred years in the future Duke mu was
already the fourteenth ruler of Qin he
was one of the five hegemon of the day
along with the rulers of Qi seong-jin
and Chu though not one of the bowing or
hegemon the rulers of Wu and yet in the
lower reaches of the yangtze also
considered no slouches when it came to
fighting the wolf state was led by King
Helu who we featured front and center in
that CHP 111 episode covering the wolf
State and spoiler alerts when the Chien
finished their conquests China will bulk
up to a size that will just about stay
the same all the way up to the Qin
Dynasty
when the Manchus pushed China's borders
out to the limits we know today but
that's still a ways off the Battle of
Jin Young in present-day Tai urine and
450 BCE and the defeat of the jeers
state lit the spark that lit the fuse
that led to the sign challenge in the
partition of Jin between 434 and 403 BC
the partition of this state of Jean was
one of those things that no one believed
could ever happen the gym had been the
perennial badasses of the north for the
longest time and no one ever liked to
mess with them but how the mighty
sometimes fall indeed they went down
hard and from their carcass arose the
successor states of Joe way and hon
these three dominated the Yellow River
Valley and will make it to the finals of
the seven warring states that she's
shown these remaining seven states will
fight or bargain for survival and of
course in the end 221 BCE that Sheen led
by King eun-jung emerged victorious this
partition of Jean and the changes in
dynamic had caused set the stage for the
next phase of the warring States period
the two and a half centuries of the
warring States Period and to the fifth
century till 221 BCE is going to witness
a complete transformation of Chinese
society manners economics and philosophy
China was cut up this way
did she mass stronghold was in the way
River Valley
Shaanxi Gansu the Han Wei and Chou
covered the Yellow River Valley the Qi
state had their capital and ling-su in
Shandong just east of modern dates of
all the Chu were down in the middle of
reaches of the Yangtze who Bay around
there last was Yin around the environs
of present-day Beijing that was Eastern
Jo China on the eve of the war for
unification from the time of Dukes young
in the 8th century up to the mid 4th
century BCE that Sheen slowly
consolidated their power and integrated
themselves with Jo Dynasty China as
disunited as it was everything changed
for the qin mid 4th century BCE that was
the turning point not only for the qin
state but for the future chinese state
as well anything great or long
thing about the chin had its roots
planted right here there was one man
perhaps most responsible for laying the
groundwork for all the chin conquests
and the societal changes within the chin
state so before we begin this story of
Shang Yang let's talk about all the
amazing and deadly effective new ways to
commit mass slaughter on the battlefield
that also began around this time fourth
and fifth century BCE a few things
happened that really impacted what a
battlefield looked like when it was all
over anyone who listened to Dan Carlin
tell the story of World War one and his
comp down to Armageddon series recalls
how the Western powers had this great
leap forward industrially and one of the
many things that sprang from this was
the design and manufacture of weapons
that could cause hitherto unknown
quantities of death and destruction it
changed the whole nature of war in
between cataclysmic conflicts between
opposing powers sometimes there would be
this huge advance in some technology
like when automatic machine guns
suddenly appeared in 1862 with the
Gatling gun and especially 1883 with a
maxim machine gun total game changers
mid-eastern Joe China had its own
similar moment pretty much up to this
time combat was just like you see in
those old serial dramas hand and combat
three-man chariot Spears bow and arrow
men to kill someone back then in battle
you really have to get right up close
and do it swords began to show up in
battle mid six century BCE and cavalry
too started to become more common but it
was very up close and personal the maxim
gun of its day that led to such a
seismic change on the battlefield was
the invention of the crossbow by the Qin
this was quite a step up from the bow
and arrow and in the right hands they
were deadly accurate from this far away
is 150 meters the Iron Age was starting
which led to all kinds of improvements
and agricultural tools and higher crop
yields and
mentioned a few changes in the
battlefield to the chin are gonna take
their sweet time transitioning from
bronze to iron with the secret of iron
Kim the invention of the axe that loved
men for the first time in history to cut
down trees and learn about the downsides
of deforestation so many trees were cut
down in the middle reaches of the Yellow
River Valley back then that the
phenomenon of this terrible silting of
China's sorrow began these were some
pretty big changes going on not only was
the eastern Joe Perry the most fertile
time in Chinese philosophy it was just
as fruitful in the new technologies and
inventions that came to the fore and
Joseph Needham's work that we discussed
last time science and civilization in
China proved all that along with all
these new weapons of war and other
technologies that provided additional
benefits to fighting battles was the
fundamental change in how battles were
fought
besides crossbows added to the mix of
weaponry were Spears seven metres long a
kind of halberd that was like an axe on
the end of a pole this chin weapon could
both slice and stab from a safer
distance than with a sword there are
also these kinds of daggers or P that
was fixed to a three and a half meter
pole and think of it as a long bayonets
without the gun and soldiers started
wearing lamellar armor for the first
time you see a lot of the Qin Emperor's
terracotta warriors wearing this stuff
these were layered leather plates
studded with metal that gave the
infantry some protection whenever some
sword came crashing down on them from
the 5th to the 3rd century BCE the age
of infantry development evolved in the
SHA the shang and the western jo war was
squarely in the domain of the nobles and
their knights they raised armies and
though there was plenty of gruesome
killing these battles were small and an
army of 10,000 was considered massive
remember Alexander the Great conquered
the world
than like 50,000 men the age of the huge
armies hadn't arrived but now during the
warring States period the numbers were
pumped up to the six figures no longer
was war and battle solely the domain of
the aristocrats and their Knights the
Qin leaders by the mid 4th century knew
the same thing Gaius Marius knew and
what no less a person than Chairman Mao
also knew rainbow Hall pond sure when
you have a lot of people to do the job
it's much easier when you scale up the
army to one or two hundred thousand
soldiers carrying all the latest weapons
of the day some serious damage could be
inflicted starting in the fourth century
BCE siege warfare will develop and now
there was a whole new way to conquer an
enemy from the other side of their high
protective walls the true army from down
south near hold bay they were the first
to start bulking up and trying out this
new mass infantry for size as Marius
would later do the Qin hung out a little
red meat that attracted the new men of
the day who in exchange for these nice
benefits picked up a weapon and got
counted and joined the Qin army and one
other thing these minor Nobles of the
eastern Joe many of these sure as they
were called these educated aristocratic
Knights they were wooed by the Dukes and
kings of the day to help with the civil
administration of these newly beefed up
states and the character shear which had
always meant a knight now take on a more
literary meaning for this emerging class
of civil administrators the office of
theis young or chief minister was first
seen during the time a prince one of way
for 45 to 395 and was adopted by the Qin
King way one who reigned 338 to 311 BCE
in the Qin state things were trending in
the direction of a kind of political
system that called for civil servants to
be chosen and paid for by the state and
if they didn't perform they were
dismissed or banished
they were under the control of the
central power and served as an extension
of his power and a means to project his
power over a much greater distance than
the Joe Kings were able to do the idea
called for dividing up all the territory
in the most efficient and logical way
and turned each block into an
administrative district that made it
easier to mobilize organize collect
taxes reward punish and control and the
man who made it all possible with
Xianyang he came to the chin from his
home and waist day to 359 BCE with the
support of his benefactor Duke Xiao of
Qin Xiang yang instituted far-reaching
changes throughout society from the top
down to the most remote and common
peasant there was no room for these
aristocratic Nobles who had had their
way since the time of the Xiang Kings as
the power and effectiveness of the
infantry grew in the 300s and 200s BCE
these former surrounding feudal lords
and statelets who in their day defied
and brought down many a king or
competing Lord themselves found it hard
to maintain a life to which they had
become accustomed not to mention a whole
new way of fighting battles 4th 5th
century BCE iron and all its uses in
agriculture just transform the
countryside and China's world-famous
gigantic population right here has its
first great leap it will happen
throughout Chinese history when new
technologies brought improvements to
agriculture and if relative peace and
prosperity could last a few generations
what follows is a big boost in
population this happened in the song and
again in the Ming then it was to almost
spike in the chain
not until iron tools and implements
transformed the countryside could you
support these kinds of large population
centers all concentrated in one general
area now it was possible and almost at
once these cities began to rise
and by the way this phase China enters
into with the Chien is the final one
where the only foods people ate or
whatever was indigenous to the lands
they occupied once the Han Dynasty
starts and the Silk Road gets cranked up
China will be inundated with new foods
sauces spices and cooking methods so
let's get back to Xiang yang his
benefactor was Duke Xiao Qing Xiao Hong
he lived 381 to 338 BCE and began his
rule of the qin state in 361 Alexander
the third of Macedon at this time was
only four years old and hidden earned
the moniker the great yet but both Dukes
Zhao and Alexander inherited the reins
of power at about the same age though 25
years separated their times of great
conquest Duke Xiao had 23 years in the
hot seat the Qin had sort of fallen on
hard times when Duke Xiao took over
not since Duke mu almost 300 years
before had that Sheen made any enemies
quake in their boots Duke Xiao was
determined to do something about this in
the history books I guess the best thing
people have said about Dukes Shah was
that he was smart enough to find and
employ Shang yang and when Xiang yang
was ripping out all the carpeting
pulling down the ceilings and blowing up
everything the nobles had held so dear
for so long
Dukes show stood by his man and
protected him and within a few years
after his benefactor Duke Xiao died
Xiang yang found himself tied up to five
horse carriages when someone yelled
giddy up he got ripped apart this was
the old Julia penalty and because Dukes
shallow successor King Whelan really
didn't like Xiang yang
he also imposed the sentence of Julia
and jutsu aka Zhu Zhu that meant when
Shang Yang went down so did his whole
family parents grandparents children
grandchildren siblings uncles and uncle
spouses
they all had to go so let's look at what
poor old cheongyang did to deserve all
that well he transformed the qin state
that's what he did he put this system in
place in qin that six generations later
the first Qin Emperor rolled out across
the entirety of the newly conquered and
United China station and by doing that
the first Qin Emperor put the software
and hardware in place that allowed a
central authority to project power and
manage the entirety of the new United
China right down to the village level
and even though the Qin Dynasty didn't
last long
it did unify China for at least a while
so no one could say anymore that it
couldn't be done so later on when Xiang
Yu and Yeo bong contend for supremacy
from 206 to 202 BCE they both knew what
the stakes were the reforms that led to
all that began with Xiang yang and 359
BCE
Liat first stumbled upon these new ways
of doing things and his travels to Qi
and to Jin one of the most core ideas
introduced was the whole notion of
giving land to the peasants in return
for military service and a host of other
legal obligations the obvious effects of
Xiang Yang's reforms were threefold
first the size of the army was able to
be vastly increased so not only were
there all these great new weapons and
ways to wage battle now there were huge
masses of these soldiers who knew how to
swing a halberd before long a large
well-trained and well armored infantry
became the only way to fight and was
such a massive army the dependence on
the nobility to provide military support
ended now the central authority
controlled everything and with this new
merit system in place it turns soldiers
into the most vicious killers for the
first time a road map to economic
advancement of society was now wholly
possible for the peasants the third
major reform involved the implementation
of a single Yuna
form administration and a set of laws
for the entire population and everything
was based on universal military service
there were 25 ranks one had to climb to
get to the top the roadmap was clear as
far as how one rose up the ranks he had
to kill and show success on the
battlefield a whole Military Merit
reward system was implemented how many
heads you handed in at the end of the
day determine where you stood in the
system and this determined the kinds of
perks you and your family received in
scheen society there were no surprises
it was a rigid and organized system then
without the aid of drones helicopters or
any tall buildings shang yang called for
the entirety of the Qin realm to be
divided up It was as if a
manhattan-style grid was laid down that
covered the whole state and in using
this grid the state was able to divvy
out the land all these peasants anxious
to take the government up on this
warring States version of 40 acres and a
mule once everything was organized
collecting taxes became a cinch and so
tax revenue began pouring into the state
coffers
let me quote one of the great
authorities on ancient China here in the
u.s. Stanford professor Mark Edward
Lewis who said in his 2007 work entitled
the early Chinese emperors quote
according to one historic source the
grid covered the entire state of Qin
supporting evidence comes from modern
study using large-scale topographical
maps to examine the layout of fields in
China it has shown that throughout much
of the north particularly the areas of
Qin and Jin roads and footpaths form a
striking rectilinear pattern everywhere
oriented north-south and east-west
regularity on this scale would have been
impossible without state intervention
and quote an intervening was what the
Qin state was good at thanks to all the
technological inventions discovered the
economic progress made and the
effectiveness with which Xiang Yang's
reforms were carried out there was a
much different
State than before soon they were going
to be ready to test their wings and the
great families who had had their way
since year the great and the Chou
dynasty no one needed them anymore their
time had come and gone the way the
system worked now the peasants not the
nobles had become the foundation of
military and economic power so what
started in that she and true Xiang yang
took to the next level in Qin
Xiang Yun codified his entire philosophy
into the Xiang ji shoe or just the
Zhang's ooh this work forms the basis of
the entire legalist philosophy later
made more famous by Han fades conveyed
the lid from 282 to 36 BCE dyeing 15
years before unification in 221 legalism
wasn't pretty but it was effective which
didn't make it necessarily good but I
guess that's what we have philosophers
for legalism was most concerned with
order in society
everything sort of spiraled out from
that concept and the whole idea of
everyone equal under the law was
strictly enforced and to control the
levers of society a very specific set of
codes laws regulations were put in place
and enforced down to the five man groups
which represented the smallest cell in
the new order if a peasant followed the
rules there was a lot in it for them the
downside was that a collective
responsibility system was also part of
the Xiang yang reforms so if someone in
your group committed some sort of
infraction or offence you had to go down
with that person it was harsh hum fades
expounded on this more later but it was
Xiang yang who thought yeah the human
race figured out people were innately
evil selfish and never up to anything
good if left to their own devices the
people's wickedness will cause a decay
in society to the point where order
breaks down what you needed was a strong
and powerful leader at the center of
things who knew how to organize the
peasants and when to crack the whip and
when to give a reward
so this Xiang Jin Xiu or
the book of Lord Shang explains how the
whole thing worked if you've never heard
of Xiang yang then for sure you never
heard of pond safe these two more than
anyone else made the Qin Dynasty Xiang
yang with his two waves of reforms put
the Chien house in order and put them on
a war footing as I said he ruffled more
than a few feathers and had detractors
sufficient enough to cause his speedy
and gruesome demise once Duke Xiao died
in 338 Han say was somewhat of high
repute as a politician and strategist
also originally from the way state he's
remembered for his famous and winning
strategy of you and Jo
Jean come make allies of those far away
and use them to defeat those who are
nearby this essentially called for an
end to the way things have been handled
in Qin alliances were made for whatever
short-term expediency arose and
resources were wasted fighting battles
for lands far away that couldn't be held
anyway feng shui said you had to expand
from the inside out the states of way
Han and Chao were too close for comfort
they had to go to do that those states
who bordered them on the other side of
the conflict had to be allied with Qin
and never mind that one day their end
would have to come to the chin Qing Chun
reigned 306 to 251 he's three kings
after dou xiao Luke shall by the way was
the last of the Dukes his successor way
when adopted the term Wang for his
official title
hence king chou-heung Duke Xiao Han
Xiang yang King Jo Shang had fun so
after taking a couple of beatings at the
hands of the other warring States and
most of all from the neighboring Java
state funds Wade took it upon himself to
travel from way to Chien and he got an
audience with King Jo Shang and was able
to convince him that the methods he was
using to attain supremacy were all wrong
he explains whole yuanchao Jing Gong
strategy and soon after they
the incumbent Chancellor was out and in
266 fun swag was in Ponce ways great
achievement was to help facilitate the
creation of the autocratic monarch from
the earliest times no one single man
could project power and force his will
upon anyone beyond a certain distance in
the decades since Shang Yang died the
reforms despite the occasional pushback
took hold the state was much more
manageable now further to that pioneer
peasants from the eastern states had
moved to chain to try their luck this
allowed more land to be cultivated which
led to more grain being produced the
army kept getting bigger not only was
this good for the economy but now a
centralized army could be fed by a
single king the need to depend on nobles
to fight ones battles became obsolete
now full-time professionals who knew
their swimsuit could be brought into the
Kings employ and would serve only him
so the armies became much bigger and
more professional and because the
organized state was booming economically
the financial wherewithal to feel these
massive six-figure armies became
possible then add to the mix all the
great technological advances made that
enhanced a soldier's effectiveness on
the field of battle Kon Suay taught his
King if you were able to utilize such
shock and awe tactics and overcome your
enemy you had to finish the job
down to the last combatant no one could
be left alive to come back and fight you
another day and so in the mid 3rd
century BCE the period began where you'd
have these massive battles and tens and
tens of thousands sometimes more than a
hundred thousand would die in the course
of a single battle and this brutal
strategy culminated in 260 BCE at the
Battle of Chongqing which we'll discuss
in the next episode that battle to end
all battles saw the destruction of jalle
at the hands of Jeanne
so my chance said it was all over that
Sheen killed every last surviving enemy
soldier buried them alive all 400,000
survivors of the JA army thanks phonce
way once Chien defeated jaw at Chun ping
and after they themselves were comforted
from that Armageddon there were no other
rivals left who could pose any serious
threat to Qin between 230 and 221 began
the war of unification only Qin had
reformed like they did reforming society
and reforming the military and
everything now was focused on one single
king who had the final say with regard
to the taxes and the army everything was
concentrated in one single person
he ran the system in the other states
they were still stuck in the Jo dynasty
with and fief Nobles and reliance on too
many others with their own hidden
agendas there are two more Kings to go
before the great grandson of King John
comes to power and this of course is he
Chun he takes over from his deceased
father in 246 BC and hits the back of
the net in 221 BCE all for next time
there's still plenty more that happens
in the Qin between the time phonce ways
reforms kicked in and when Jung Jung
anointed himself the first emperor
next week will finish up on all the
other amazing feats and wonders the Qin
made before the first emperor takes over
Qin sure Wong gets way more credit than
he deserves
he didn't just appear out of nowhere and
carve out this new nation improvements
to the qin state had been going on for
more than a hundred years before ying
chun was born but as we'll see the first
Qin Emperor was a perfect capstone to
all those reforms he really took the
whole idea of a tyrannical autocratic
monarch to its ultimate level so that's
gonna all be for next time and I'm
pretty sure we could finish off the fall
of the Qin next time in part 2
if you go check the website or the
iTunes feed you'll see CHP oo2 on Sheena
shirt Wong has been cast into the deep
dark pits of CHP oblivion along with
episodes 12 21:43 5474 and a hundred
hope you don't mind
and I finished yet I won't say the first
Qin Emperor drank these teas but I
wanted to let you know I'm teaming up at
the fine folks at tea sense calm to
bring you not one but five historic teas
of China the history of beech has been
covered in the internationally
award-winning ten part history of tea
series brought to you by this very
program packed inside this lovely wooden
gift box are a hundred and fifty grams
that's five and a third ounces for my
fellow American skis a long Jean from
the vicinity of West Lake not this sich
one product that's transformed at the
launching using a special Shanghai
process this is the real thing ta Guan
gained from unchi and Fujian huangshan
malfunction we in one of my personal
faves the fabled da Hong Pao big red
rope tea from hua Shan Fujian Province
Robert fortunes old stomping ground
there's also a nice 50 gram brick of a
very fine ripe who are we're also
including a loose leaf ripe who are so
you can get a more complete pull our cha
experience both brick and loose party
was grown and packed in tea heaven
shi Xiong bana in the vacation paradise
and birthplace of tea Yunnan Province
there is also a personal message from
your host and humble narrator as well as
a brief history of each of the five
teams brewing instructions will also be
supplied with details about how long to
steep each tea how much to use and what
temperature the water should be heated
to we thought of everything
hey don't go through some middleman like
me go to tea sense calm and search for
the historic teas of China
that's te a Sen z.com or just go to the
good old CHP website and I'll have a
link directly to the exact web page
where you can get yours if I didn't say
supplies were limited you heard it here
first historic teas of China a
co-production with tea sense calm the
people who bring you the authentic
Chinese tea experience and
this very china history podcast
consistently voted one of the top
hundred China history podcasts on the
worldwide web that's all I have for you
right now
this is Lazlo Montgomery signing off
from Gainesville Georgia again I can't
get enough of the American South
no wonder Jeremy Gould corn decided to
move here been downing sweet tea all day
and night thank you very much take care
everyone and consider joining me next
time won't you for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast